# Problems Considered

This repository contains the source code for:

1.  Heuristic and exact methods to solve the Selective Graph Colouring Problem.
    The reference paper for these algorithms is:

    Fabio Furini, Enrico Malaguti, and Alberto Santini. An exact algorithm for the Partition Colouring Problem. Computers & Operations Resarch, 92:170-181, 2018. 
2.  Exact methods to solve the Min-Weight Selective Graph Colouring Problem.
    The reference paper for these algorithms is yet a draft.

# Selective Graph Colouring Problem

Code for the SGCP is in folder `base-sgcp`.

## Folder `base-sgcp/source-code`

This folder contains the C++ source files.
The various solution algorithms are:

* A branch-and-price algorithm (subfolder `branch-and-price`), used in the above paper
* A representative-based MIP (subfolder `campelo-mip`)
* A compact MIP formulation (subfolder `compact-mip`)
* A decomposition method (subfolder `decomposition`)
* Various heuristics (subfolder `heuristics`):
  * Greedy heuristics, used in the above paper
  * A Tabu Search algorithm, used in the above paper
  * An Adaptive Large Neighbourhood Search algorithm, used in the above paper
  * A Greedy Randomised Search Procedure

## Folder `base-sgcp/instances`

This folder contains test instances from the literature.
There are four test sets: `random`, `big-random`, `nsfnet`, and `ring`.
The instance format is the following:

* The first line only has one number `n`, which is the number of vertices in the graph (numbered from `0` to `n-1`)
* The second line only has one number `m`, which is the number of edges in the graph
* The third line only has one number `p`, which is the number of clusters in the partition
* The next `m` lines have two numbers, and represent the edges
* The next `p` lines have at least 1 number, and represent the clusters

# Min-Weight Selective Colouring Problem

Code for the MWSGCP is in folder `min-weight-sgcp`.

## Folder `min-weight-sgcp/source-code`

This folder contains the C++ source files.
Files `graph.{h,cpp}` implement an algorithm based on the Maximum-Weight Stable Set problem, for the SGCP.
Files `graph_weighted.{h,cpp}` implement the corresponding extension for the MWSGCP.

## Folder `min-weight-sgcp/instances`

This folder contains instances for the MWSGCP generated by me.
The instances have the same format as the SGCP instances, except that before the lines representing edges, there are `p` lines indicating the weights of each cluster.

# License

This source code in this repository is released under the GPLv3.0 license, as detailed in the file `LICENSE.txt`
